+++
title = "A Retrospective on GMTK 2025 Game Jam"
date = 2025-08-08
+++

I took part in the GMTK 2025 Game Jam.

The theme was **"LOOP"**.

* * *

### First Idea

My initial idea was to create a game about programming, using a fictional language I called something like "LoopLang."

The defining feature of LoopLang was that it only had one keyword: `loop`.

The original concept for the code was something like this:
```
loop // output: 0

loop
  loop // output: 1

loop
  loop
    loop // output: 2
```

Each `loop` would implicitly return a number, with the outermost `loop` returning 0, and each nested `loop` returning 1. A nested `loop` would pass its value to the outer one, where the numbers would be accumulated.

I started designing puzzles, but I quickly realized that with just this, I couldn't design any!

So I added a data structure:
```
loop
  a = [1] // list
```

But a data structure is useless without a way to manipulate it:
```
loop
  a = [1]
  add 2: a // [1, 2]
  remove 1: a // [2]
```

This immediately added two more keywords and a colon. Even with these additions, it was still impossible to create compelling puzzles.

I started adding more and more keywords, to the point where it started to look like a real programming language.

This is when I should have given up, because the abundance of keywords diluted the uniqueness of the `loop` concept.

But I didn't. I thought the design was great, and I started researching how to implement an interpreter.

After I wrote a lexical analyzer, I started designing the puzzles again, and it hit me—all these keywords meant the game no longer revolved around the central idea of "loop."

So, I abandoned the idea.

By this point, 1.5 days of the jam had already passed.

* * *

### Second Idea

I decided to start over. I chose to make a narrative game, since it was a genre I had never explored before.
I've always liked the **retrofuturism** art style, so I decided to make a narrative game with a retrofuturistic aesthetic.

The first thing I settled on was the game's visual style:
A terminal with a black background, green text, and a CRT effect.
After that, I started writing the story.

My inspiration came from a detective novel, which I won't name here to avoid spoiling the game's central mystery.
In short, it became a murder mystery, and I was quite satisfied with it.

I finished the entire game in less than a day.

Here is the link to the game: [The Socratic Machine](https://btother.itch.io/thesocraticmachine)

* * *

### Postscript

I'm currently developing a full version of **The Socratic Machine**, but I still like the concept of LoopLang. Maybe years from now, I'll revisit it and think about a new approach.

That's all for now.